---
layout: post
title:  "Letter from Dan's 20+ Advisees"
author: 
categories: []
image: assets/images/2.jpg
featured: true
---
An open letter from Dan’s advisees.


We are Dan’s students at JHU CLSP (Center of Language and Speech Processing). We are innocent but supposed to be the greatest victims in the Garland hall incident. We feel extremely disappointed and confused about what has happened, including the protestors blocking the entrance to our server room and the university unemploying Dan. As victims, we hope to express our feelings and situations, and give people another perspective for the whole thing. 

The protest started at the beginning of April. At first it was a peaceful protest, but since May the protestors escalated the situation by chaining themselves in the building and blocking any entrance of students and staff. It was at that time, some of our computer servers, which located in Garland hall and housed much of our data, went down. Even worse was the risk that the whole cluster of servers could go down and some data might forever got lost if the protest went on and no one could take care of the machines. Without physical access to reboot the servers, some, or even all, of us could not continue to work and would face weeks of uncertainties. It was Dan who stood out for us to try to get things back to normal, although the action he took was not appropriate as criticized. Later, he was put to administrative leave for three month, during which he could neither come to office nor communicate with us, and then got unemployed on August 8th.

We definitely sympathize with the people who the protestors are fighting for, but the protest is in fact hurting us. We understand human life and humanity should be prioritized over anything else, but why in turn should our career and future is taken arbitrarily by the protestors as sacrifice? Is it really necessary? Who should be responsible for our loss? At that time, some of us were busy finishing the PhD thesis and some of our fellow students where catching conference deadlines. It is hard to imagine how much tough time we have gone through before we get to JHU and get to this point for the PhD. For some of us, ensuring the research and PhD process is of paramount importance as our lives. Besides us, there are other people greatly affected, such as numerous students who seek student service in Garland hall, including disabled students who need disability service for taking their finals, international students who are traveling back to their country and need a signature from the international office or they won’t be able to re-enter the US, and international students who need help from the international office in filling important forms so that they could renew their legal status in the US. These matters may be seen of little importance to others, but they could be everything to the person. Regarding the protestors, we respect their goal, but not their method. However, they did not pay enough respect to other people’s goals in the same way.

We feel more disappointed at how the university handled the incident, especially unemploying Dan, which make our situation worse. Note that among us we also have different opinions on the whole thing, and we don’t necessarily agree with everything that Dan did. But the majority of us feel that some important aspect of this incident is overlooked.

First, a lot of people think Dan’s action of staging a counter-protest is politically motivated. This couldn’t be further from the truth. Of course, everyone has their political beliefs including Dan, but the only reason he chose to do what he did was because of our servers failing. It was more likely Dan was ticked off by the way the protest happened. As a matter of fact, Dan is always leaning liberal, and he even donated to Clinton’s campaign back in 2016. Besides his own research and advising his students, Dan also acts as the sysadmin of CLSP, and is responsible for the correct functioning of all machines, where issue occur quite frequently due to the large number of machines (more than 50 computers, 1000 CPUs and 140 GPUs, holding hundreds of terabytes of data, that are running experiments 24/7 by people from CLSP) and that students, especially more junior ones, might abuse the computation power. When the incident occurred, we could easily see from the center-wide emails how Dan became more and more anxious when realizing that the machines started to fail and he needed to physically reboot the machines at Garland hall to fix the issues. He was extremely upset in his email when he found out that the protesters had chained themselves to the doors in Garland hall, and the university expected there could be weeks before the whole thing quieted down. 

Second, we are very disappointed at the way that the university has shown in the investigation, on its complete lack of transparency, the blatant double-standard and the ridiculous constraints that we had to follow when the investigation was carried out. 

Immediately after Dan was put on administrative leave, we were told that we were not allowed to contact Dan, even regarding purely academic matters. Dan has close to 20 graduate students, all of whom need his advising in our projects. At the time of the incident, 4 of them are close to graduating and needed Dan’s advice on their thesis; 6 are in year 1, and not yet senior enough to completely conduct research independently. Most students of Dan’s are international students, with only 3 of them being Americans. We considered Dan being the best person we should turn to, as Dan has been closely following our work. However, we felt extremely alienated by this ridiculous constraint that the university put on them. The university gave the reason that we couldn’t contact Dan is because Dan could “attack his students”, which is a ridiculous explanation which can’t be backed by any common sense. 

As far as we know, none of the students of Dan’s was interviewed during the investigation process. The lack of transparency in the so-called investigation is appalling. Shortly after Dan was put on leave, we conducted a center-wide survey, and we had a lot of responses, most of which were supportive of Dan, including a lot of very liberal people from CLSP. But apparently, the opinions of people from CLSP, even Dan’s own students who Dan work with every day, don’t matter. 

We were extremely shocked to find out that Dan was unemployed by the university. Some of us acknowledge that Dan did do certain things that were problematic, but it was no way near the firing threshold. And at the same time, we have seen blatant double-standard in the way the university treated Dan and the protestors. It is clear that those protesting students broke trespassing laws, and some of them committed violence. They have greatly affected countless students in the university. We understand that the university can say they must have a higher bar for actions of their faculties than students, however, this distinct double-standard in the treatment to Dan and those students is too big, and in the decision-making process, the university seemed to completely ignored the fact that we were seriously impacted, both by those protesting students and also by Dan’s firing.

Right now with our advisor gone, we are deeply frustrated. In fact, we were having two supervisors, who gave us different sorts of support, while Dan’s was irreplaceable. We are facing a lot of uncertainties during this difficult time. The students who are graduating are not told if they can still schedule their defense normally. For the junior students, if they have to find a new supervisor, they did not hear from the university about realistic issues such as research topic and funding. In the worst case, some of them may have to quit their PhD which they had been working hard towards for long. This will definitely change their whole life.

Last but not least, we, as international students in Dan’s group, mostly from Asia, are being attacked by Hopkins students in a super popular JHU Facebook group consisting of 16000 people. “Continenal asians” were told to “eat shit” for defending Dan. They also post in the group that “continenal asians” [are] “being antiblack to gain proximity to whiteness“, and ridicule “continenal asians” for “only interacting with people who speak the same language”, and we were just wondering why was race brought in this. Is this the “tolerant culture” they represent?

We just wonder whether we deserve the suffering. We also wonder what ultimately causes this unpleasant situation? We believe there must be something wrong in our community, otherwise researchers like Dan would not left JHU, our studies at JHU would not get affected and the research strength of CLSP will not potentially get hurt in the future. We would hope for more transparency of the investigation and less bureaucracy of the decision. We hope to have a fair answer. 
